an Israeli air strike on a vehicle in
the occupied West Bank has killed a
Hamas Commander that's according to a
media Outlet linked to the group which
is classified as a terrorist
organization by many countries the
Israeli military has confirmed the
attack saying it targeted a militant
cell around the city of tulam it's the
latest in a series of strikes against
hamas's leadership raising concerns
about a potential spillover of the war
in
Gaza it comes a day after the group's
leader Ismael hania was buried in the
capital uh of katari Doha with thousands
attending the funeral service he was
assassinated in an alleged Israeli
attack in tyan on Wednesday Hamas and
Iran have vowed to retaliate the US says
it will send additional fighter jets and
warships to the
region and we're joined Now by DW
correspondent Constantine edgert in
Jerusalem Constantine what more can you
tell us about the Israeli Army operation
in
toam well the Israeli officials are
saying that it seems like it's a
veritable battle that was going on in
tarum today uh the Israeli uh Army
confirmed that it had to strike uh Hamas
Fighters again uh with another drone
strike uh they did confirm that they
eliminated uh five people in this first
uh drone strike they were in a car and
they said that the local commander of
aadin Kasam brigades which is
essentially a military uh wing of Hamas
uh was eliminated in this strike uh it
seems like other Fighters may have been
killed in the battle with the Israelis
so um yes T Kum today was definitely a
fles point but to add to that uh uh the
um Israeli Army and Israeli security uh
forces
said that they uh struck a car struck a
hisbah commander uh in the south of
Lebanon today so uh it's in a completely
different area in different country so
it was a very very uh unquiet day today
in
Israel well with the war still raging in
Gaza daily clashes in the West Bank a
Bonafide Northern front along the Israel
Lebanon border which you're just now
referring to and a threat of retaliation
from Iran and its proxies are we seeing
a shift in Israeli
strategy well I I I would say that it's
not yet a front in the north although of
course the situation becomes more and
more tense there on the Lebanese border
um as for this strategy I do think that
um Israel the Israeli government the
Israeli security establishment and army
establishment always considered the
possibility of a war onto France so uh I
do not think it's anything spectacularly
new but yes I think the uh the cumulate
effect of uh these many clashes uh
produces this feeling that uh the
situation is indeed very very hot and
yes you you feel it here uh in Israel
although I looked out the window today
is um it seems like very quiet in
Jerusalem uh but at the same time
Michael uh news keep coming that more
and more Airlines for example are
cancelling flights to Israel and to
neighboring Lebanon so indeed tension is
growing Constantine just quickly
according to Israeli media reports a
highlevel Israeli delegation has arrived
in Cairo for truce talks Ismael hania of
course was the chief Hamas negotiator
before he was assassinated where does
this leave talks and the hopes of
Israeli hostages and their
families Michael indeed uh if the these
reports are true then uh uh both
security Chiefs of domestic security and
foreign intelligence uh of Israel are in
Egypt for talks with the Egyptian
security establishment uh I would say
it's still early to say that it's some
kind of movement with regard to Hamas
but definitely uh Egypt was always very
instrumental in uh everything that
concerned Gaza so it is an interesting
sign bear in mind the fact as you
rightly said that Han was killed just
just two two three days ago uh it is an
interesting development if we believe
these reports they should be confirmed
further I think DW correspondent
Constantine Edgard in Jerusalem thanks
to you sir let's get more from DW's uh
Beirut bureau chief Muhammad ASA
Muhammad good to see you now that we are
a few days after the death of hania and
The prominent Hezbollah commander fuad
shukar in Lebanon um perhaps you can
give us an assessment of at this stage
what seems like the most likely response
we could see from
Hezbollah well to understand the overall
situation we have to see this from hb's
perspective this attack on beut suburbs
early this week is according to hasah an
Israeli offensive on Lebanon and not a
retaliation whatsoever since hasah is
denying any responsibility for last
week's attack on M Shams in the occupied
Kanan and this is a very important
detail because this determines the
nature of hb's response on the attack on
its stronghold in Beirut hasbullah um
has been clearly saying uh that the
retaliation is inevitable uh on the
basis of that this is an offensive on
Lebanon that this was carried out in a
in a civilian residential complex it
caused the death of uh innocent
civilians and it targeted a senior hasah
military uh figure and therefore we have
to carefully read into Nala's speech in
in that sense especially in the event of
the killing of is in tanah said that the
region entered a new phase of escalation
and I would say that this indicates that
we are far beyond just a supporting
front but less than an allout War but in
such moment of high tension it would be
really ridiculous to rule out an allout
War so what kind of diplomatic efforts
have we seen to try to prevent this from
becoming a much wider War in the
region well you know we've been
following on on the very active and
intense political and diplomatic efforts
to deescalate the situation to pressure
hasah to exercise restrain and avoid a
big uh retaliation but really this
sounds far-fetched the heavily armed
group have rejected all calls and
actively been rejecting all calls to
reach a a deal that would stop the
confrontation with Israel based on the
UN resolution 1701 which stopped the war
between Lebanon and Israel in 2006 uh
2006 hasah have been constantly clear
about that it um would only uh be
interested in in um stopping the fire
and settling for negotiations um once a
ceasefire in Gaza is um enacted well
thank you so much as always that is DW's
Beirut bureau chief Muhammad Isa well
Germany says it is also planning for a
possible escalation in the Middle East
Berlin is among Israel's stest allies
and the government has repeatedly stated
that Israel has a right to self-defense
defense minister Boris Pistorius has
ruled out deploying German troops to the
region but he told DW the government is
watching the situation
closely well we are assessing the the
the situation every day or every half
day with together with the foreign
Ministry and the chancellory and we are
preparing for what might coming coming
ahead like evacuation or whatever else
but at the moment we are only in the in
the phase of preparations not in acting